please welcome our guests kobe bryant's
[Applause]
like me
Thank You Man
man if I knew College was gonna be like
this I would have took my butt to school
welcome thanks for being here thanks for
coming to USC checking it out for maybe
your three daughters are on their way
here yeah one for sure one for sure of
other ones like she's obsessed about
going to UConn so what we have to try to
figure that out
she's obsessed with you come by the time
she's old enough USC women's basketball
will be where UConn is now all right
that's what I'm talking about
that'll make my wife extremely have both
of our babies homes speaking at last
over the weekend Arica good boy Wally
when she hit the winning shot both in
the final and the semi-final yelled mama
meant mentality was the head was that
easy for you to listen to well I mean I
love watching great players do
phenomenal things you know and it's
always it always makes me feel good that
what I've done throughout my career has
inspired the next generation you know
but you know my daughter just like sent
me after the games cause you know we
probably stayed home because we're at
the game we went to the game to see you
kind of and you know after she says that
she's like maybe we should've just
stayed home great performance it was
such a clutch shot both of them um today
as I mentioned we want to focus on like
three things primarily when we talk
about mindset and mentality we certainly
want to talk about your competitive
philosophy we want to talk about
leadership and then some of the lessons
through basketball we're on a strict
time schedule we're gonna get you out
here by 1:30 some students will ask
questions at the end but let's remind
what we dive right in all right see
let's start with dear basketball which
began as a poem you know almost a love
letter to basketball can you tell us the
origin of that of that writing and how
it went from a written poem to a movie
well I mean was thinking about how was
going how was I going to announce now
to walk away from the game and for the
most part you know as athletes we tend
to think about that in terms of
communicating that to the public or to
fans and I realized I hadn't really had
a chance to speak to the game itself and
and so I decided that was going to be my
focus and once I had that focus the
words came pretty quickly actually wrote
two drafts within about 30 minutes the
first one was more confrontational in
nature because it felt like I felt like
the game was trying to tell me you need
me and you can't you can't walk away
from this you know this is who you are
and so the first tone was more
confrontational is like no I can I can
walk away from you I can do something
without you you know and then like in
every argument you kind of calm down and
you started seeing all the beautiful
things that you've learned from the game
which is the second draft you know you
guys here now but I wanted to make sure
it's visual so it's easy to say tell the
game I love you so much but instead I
wanted to paint a picture with that so
if a kid is rolling his dad's stinky
tube socks up chances are you loved the
game enough to do that you know so it's
trying to say things visually and
unfortunate enough Glen Keane was
believed in the vision and John Williams
believed in a vision and returned it
into an animated film and give us a
little bit of what's it like to be
nominated and to win an Academy Award
you know you talk about being a kid and
rolling up and playing basketball your
whole life when you were a kid did you
ever dream hip hearing and the Oscar
goes to no no I grew up in Italy okay so
late I don't even know Oscars was the
same I had no idea you know and so when
the nominations came on we were
nominated it was like oh that's that's
pretty that's pretty crazy that's pretty
insane and then to actually win it I
remember winning and just looking at my
wife to go on
you know what okay all right this
happened all right all right
and I remember after we wanted we got in
the car and you know it was like a late
night right so y'all hanging out and
stuff it's like 4:00 in the morning you
know in the car going back and I look at
my wife and I go I got followed [__] up
we're gonna talk about by the studios
and what project you have coming but
you're right you've set a pretty high
it's a little bit I don't know what the
hell you do what we're Glen Keane and
John Williams I saw downhill after
that's like you know it's uh but no it's
been a fantastic experience has been
wonderful but even more important than
that it was I got a lot of funny looks
my last year what people said okay what
are you gonna do when you retire and I
say well I'm gonna be a storyteller okay
that's cute what is that you know I tell
stories okay all right but so when you
retire you gonna go through different
stages you're gonna be depressed the
first week the second week and they
would tell me this all the time and so I
felt like the domination was it was it
was a validation that this thing is real
and I can do this I do have talent
other than dribbling and shooting the
basketball I can actually write yeah and
so I think that was the most important
thing that is a great lesson no matter
what you do there's other talents that
you have a nurtured yet that are sort of
waiting there for you let's talk about
you know focus on basketball since that
was the predominant part of your life
when did you start playing basketball
and at what age did it become your
primary focus um you know I was I think
was just born to play man I started
playing it like two years old and my
father wasn't one of these fathers that
was like you're gonna play basketball
and you know he wasn't one of those guys
it was just kind of I was just around
the game a lot and I gravitated to the
ball and I was completely geeking out
about like the smell of the ball and
like the way it sounds when it hits
concrete versus how it hits a parquet
floor and like the sound of the Nets and
the different material of the Nets and
you know there's certain basketball
groups like in high school gyms and in
college gyms the
sits slightly above the lower part of
the backboard and there's like I was
geeking out if I got into a gym we'll
just like the NBA with the lower
stanchion of the backboard and the hoop
were completely parallel with each other
and I got like little [__] like that
would freak me out like ah so to answer
your question I was born to do this
thing then and and I did it
non-stop all day long from the age of 2
to when I retired man and it's
interesting from the from the movie and
probably you say it is as though you
know when you fall in love with
something truly fall in love and you
don't really have a choice it chooses
you right and then you sort of become
you know indebted to that so it's
interesting to see it come out as a love
letter because no one probably would
assume that that would be the way you
would express it
sure well no I mean it's it's that's the
trick isn't it it's finding what you
love to do if we talk about hard work
all the time this night you know man if
you had to get up every single morning
remind yourself how hard you need to
work probably to choose a different
profession you know because that
shouldn't be there is I wake up in the
morning excited to get to it you know if
I'm not training I'm missing it I'm not
watching the game about I miss it you
know there's no place I'd rather be
and if you have that feeling then you're
truly doing with God has put you in his
herb to do great advice and then you see
who you left you went to from high
school we didn't leave high school you
graduate high school you went directly
to the NBA you were so young you're 17
that your parents had to sign your first
NBA contract here so right here you're
the youngest person not only on the team
but in the league we've got a bunch of
graduating students who are probably
going to their first full-time job do
you have any advice for students
entering an organization and being the
youngest person not in the room but in
the whole company well I mean in
business it's a little different you
know it's it's I think the best way to
prove your value this to work is to
learn is to absorb to be a sponge
you always want to outwork your
potential as hard as you believe you can
work you can work harder than that and
that's what I try to do when I first
came and lead but you know basketball is
such a direct competition sport that me
coming in at 17 I hated when like my
teammates would say you know I did hit
with an elbow right Shaq with hit me
with an elbow in practice and like you
know Nick Van Exel will come up and say
are you okay wow are you okay hell's
wrong with you you know it's so like I
always had that extra chip on my
shoulder so like every day I practice
for me was really trying to annihilate
everybody that was that I was playing
against because I wanted to prove you
don't need to babysit me like I'm fine
you know and and so as always that
competitive nature the work ethic and
curiosity because I asked a lot of
questions you know playing with barns
God I asked him a lot of questions Eddie
Jones who was great at chasing cars off
the screens and I didn't understand how
to do that I would sit with him before
practice after practice magic James
Worthy Kurt Rambis Kareem Abdul all the
Laker grades I would always sit down and
just asking questions about certain
games that I've studied growing up what
actually happened there what did you
feel there and why you know bird tough
to defend why cuz you look slow as [__]
to me I'm like I'm missing something so
like tell me what I'm missing you know
what I mean and so I would always ask
questions and try to learn as much as I
could right no I just different
generation you guys probably never seen
a bird play we just I've seen Larry Bird
play hey everybody's seen Larry Bird
that's that's not a high enough
percentage we got we got some work to do
they are you know they are 18 for the
time but I just thought that could be
the greatest meme to send to Boston this
afternoon well my kids have never seen
Jordan play so and they don't know AZ
they don't know we're let's let's dive
into your your mindset because I really
think that you have so many things that
translate beyond sports when we talk
about mindset and beliefs we talk about
limiting beliefs as sort of being the
ceiling of your potential you know how
you think about yourself whether
positively or negatively that's probably
what your potential is how do you
stretch your beliefs and make sure you
are continually continually pushing the
boundaries of your comfort zone and your
capabilities I just dream my dream they
have dreams and dreams is they should be
pure I think a lot of times we're born
into this world we actually wound up
going backwards and it seems like the
more we mature the more responsible our
dreams become and the more governors we
put on ourselves and our ability to
dream and to reimagine and it's always a
fight for his parents and for you guys
to make sure that your dreams always
stay pure so it's not a matter of
pushing beyond the limitations and
expectations it's really a matter of
protecting your dreams protecting your
imagination that's really the key and
when you do that then the world just
seems limitless and when you when you
set your dreams a lot of times
especially in business and
entrepreneurship you have a big vision
and people will instantly start asking
you how you'll do it and so what we tell
people is like you know don't get caught
up with the how because if you know
every step to accomplish your dream you
haven't really dream big enough you
shouldn't know every step of the way and
you'll have a tendency to walk it back
and so I would say yeah be unrealistic
in your dreams as well let's talk about
one game in particular we're not going
to cover basketball highlights because
we'd be here for months but let's talk
about one game that how that sort of
shatters the notion of what some people
might think as possible in 2006 against
the Toronto Raptors you scored 81 points
which is second only to Wilt
Chamberlain's hundred points no one has
really come close to your total since
people have it in the 60s including you
he went 28 of 46 shooting 18 to 20 18 of
20 free throws you scored 55 in the
second half and 28 of your team's final
31 points there's the score book above
us that shows that the score book and
the answer to the trivia question who
was the second leading scorer of that
game is smoosh Parker it's so good so we
have four he had hit 13 good 13 it was
something that if you were watching it
it just kept building lately I know why
I had to score you won tough days man I
was tough if you do look at that lineup
you do understand it see that's yeah I'm
not getting but at the time at the time
the owner of the Lakers Jerry Buss said
it was like watching a miracle happen
and for those of us watching on TV or
were there it really was one of those
things you just couldn't believe was
possible did you do during the game did
you have to sort of like reset your
beliefs I know
Lamar Odom was saying you can't get 60
you can't get 70 or did you just let it
flow and whatever happen happen or were
you really like gunning for numbers no I
you know I always dreamed as a kid that
you know it was possible to score 80 or
90 100 I was just like you know had a
dream you know like sometimes we lay
down in bed and you visualize things you
just kind of you know just that's how
that's at least how I would go to sleep
I lay down that imagine playing for the
Lakers and I'll imagine with the
uniforms looks like I'll imagine we
would be playing you know the smell of
the arena and all sort of stuff and I
would see myself you know getting hot
you know score ten straight points and
then but in the dream like why would you
ever interrupt that like you're not
gonna have a dream and be like okay the
new missus is next six but it's not
gonna happen so you just keep dreaming a
dream in a dream and then before I go to
sleep I'm I got a hundred and twenty
points no and so so when you grow up
downloading that into your brain over
and over and over
and then you know that summer I made a
thousand shot today a thousand right
that's on top of weight training and my
conditioning I made a thousand shots and
it weren't just shots
it was shots that you saw in that game
there were specific shots I mean it's
coming out of the corner going to the
pinch post footwork in the post coming
off the screen it was very specific so
when you download that into your system
and you go out on the court and you're
just executing things that you've done
thousands of times before and you have
that dream then that becomes possible
yeah everything's been not choreographed
but it's been practiced so many times
that it's second nature there's why
reinvent it like I don't understand that
you go out and play the game and you're
just trying to create something news no
no this is what I do this is what I do
extremely well you're gonna have to stop
me from doing that and if you do stop me
from doing that I have a counter to that
done you know years later you uh you
watched a replay of that game and you
live-tweeted what you were thinking and
I thought that the students would like
to see some of your tweets from IDC they
don't remember this is awesome so it
says watching the game now
I missed easy shots I could have had a
hundred down fourteen I'm heating up at
this point I wouldn't pass a kidney
stone
and then lastly should have been a
comedian man what the hell and then
lastly I knew I should have got a fresh
haircut for this game
[Laughter]
yeah yeah but missing two free throws is
kind of ridiculous though like you make
all those shots and you missed two free
throws you know it's kind of it's so
it's it happens yeah let's let's talk
about mindset and philosophy because we
tell students that it's very important
that you have a personal philosophy in
your basketball career did you have an
articulated competitive philosophy
something short that meant something to
you that really stood for what you what
you played my philosophy was a very
simple one I am and this is where I
think film plays a big part of my life
Rudy was one of my favorite films
growing up if you guys haven't seen Rudy
I suggest you go you watch Rudy the
reason why there's a temperature it's no
problem it's not a name so you I think
the USC football program is done okay
but after watching that film I come to
understand if I could work that hard
every day with the being blessed with
the physical tools that I have with my
career being and I made a promise to
myself from that day that I was going to
work that hard
every single day so that when I do
retire I have no regrets and that was
the most important thing for me is leave
no stone unturned get better every
single day and if I live that way then
over time you know I'd have something
that was beautiful but that was my
philosophy it seems like a pretty simple
one but you know if you lived your life
to just get better every single day and
do that for 20 years I mean what do you
have right did you uh you know you
seemed at peace both before and during
the game pregame I you know we watched
you during the anthem you seemed to go
to a place you know were you generating
calm focused confidence do you have a
mindfulness or meditative practice that
you use while you play yeah well Phil
introduced meditation to us when he came
it's our team in 99 mm and it was
something that I instantly gravitated to
because I could see the effects you I
used to watch you know studying the
games the Bulls teams and you know
watching their demeanor watching their
composure you know playing in a tough
place like Utah doing the finals and
being down 17 but everybody was like
this you couldn't tell if they were down
17 or up 20 or a tie game and never
changed and I was wondering why the hell
that is
and that's why I started doing more
research and when til came I immediately
gravitated to it then found myself
accepted the challenge of finding what
that space is and for the 81 point game
and to be honest I was wasn't even
thinking about the game my knee was
hurting so much I didn't know then but
you know how to flap a joint of
cartilage stuck in my joint line and so
my mom was really trying to go to a
place where I don't feel that pain and
game started and because of that I was
just in a different space you know I
wasn't worried about what was to come I
was worried about what just happened I
was just here and when you're just there
in the moment playing plays right in
front of you your focus is heightened
because nothing else matters and that's
the space I've tried to get to it's a
perfect definition of mindfulness in the
present moment without judgment and not
for nutrition though cuz I did have a
pepperoni pizza the night before the
game
full disclosure also had a plain quarter
pounder with cheese before the game so
to be young dinner of Champions exactly
you wouldn't eat that now yeah nutrition
didn't come till later so you talk about
practice I wanna I want to underscore
that you know Allen Iverson who was a
phenomenal player with the 76ers
famously ranted about you know when
asked by a reporter about missing
practice and he just went you know
practice we're talking about practice I
mean it's pressed it's not a game and it
was classic he went on forbidden you
know the Iverson approach is not the
Kobe Bryant approach you you really
focused on practice tell us what you
brought to practice and how you sort of
made that standard for the rest of your
team well I mean here's what I practice
was important me not from the justice
standpoint that I enjoy playing like I
enjoyed being there I enjoy getting
better but as a leader of a team it's
also your responsibility to elevate the
rest of the guys and what people will
tend to get stuck on a lot as saying
okay the way to make players better
there's the pass on the ball when
they're open that's a very trivial way
to look at things but you have to do is
you have to get them emotionally to want
to be better you want you have to get
them to an emotional space where they
wake up every morning driven to be the
best version of themselves right how do
you do that and in practice for me it
was a chance to drive them to challenge
them right if their and this is where
you have to know your teammates because
if it's late just had a back to back and
we had practice to next day and you show
up and guys don't feel like going
through the motions don't feel like
practicing it's important to know each
and every one of them individually
personally because then you know it
nerve to touch some guys it's like okay
come on let's you know we can do this
that'll get them going are the guys know
you got to figure out what button to
push you know pal was always Spain
about tell them how they lost in a gold
medal to us and how they're gonna lose
again I'm gonna beat your ass in
practice just like I beat you in a gold
medal game all that all you take that
you hate that but that's what practice
what you have to drive them you
absolutely have to and if practice is
more intense and harder than a game
seven we'll be in a game seven will be
easy but if it's not then that's when
teams start folding and capitulating you
know you actually it's a perfect segue
to you know how to create a high
performance culture with coaches and
team leaders you know everybody sort of
got to be on that page of helping you
become the best version of yourself
speaking of that we have someone who'd
like to ask you a question from Seattle
please roll this question hi this is
Pete Carroll from the Seahawks joining
in with Professor Belasco's class and
with one of the all-time greats
Kobe Bryant I'm thrilled to be part of
this night but I just have one simple
question really Kobe you have been one
of the all-time great competitors that
have ever played in in any sport and I'm
real curious to know what it was like
for you with all of the grit and all of
the makeup that you had to be such a
great competitor what was it like for
you to play with people that that
weren't as gritty as you were how did
you deal with that how did you set your
expectations knowing that that you were
so far out there and and how did you
deal with the players that she played
with you know when knowing that they
they were still kind of somewhere on the
spectrum but but you're on the top of it
good question that's a great question um
my response might sound a little tough
but I just I tell him my burial
you know it's you know tolerance for
that and the kind of culture that the
Laker organization stood for when in
Championships is not tolerated you're
gonna show up to play and you're gonna
allow the gags with the scrimmage
through this drill I'm going to beat you
I'm going to let you know I beat you I'm
gonna want you to reconsider your
professional life choice for the most
part people will say okay that doesn't
make a great teammate well I'm not gonna
be a great teammate I'm here to help you
win championships so it's a difference
and you know fortunately for us for me
you know we had an organization that it
was Championships or nothing and they
were really good about identifying that
and bringing players in here that had a
competitive streak and you know getting
rid of the ones that did not if I got a
fight to get you in the gym that's a
problem that's a problem you want
players that are gym rats players at
wannabe in the gym that wanna work and
then from there you build on top of that
but if you're lazy man I don't wanna
talk to you I want to deal with you you
don't make me feel Dumber you know
you're gonna lower my level I don't
think so you can go over there there's
plenty of teams in here where you'll fit
right in
that's what you mentioned at the time
they were right down the hall from us
how is your heart
they were you you mentioned the
organization and we're talking about
leadership not just on the floor and the
players within a basketball franchise
the players you know they were
accountable to we out to each other to
the coach the coach reports to the GM
the GM reports to ownership let's let's
look at leadership from both the players
perspective in the organization so to
help us with that please welcome the
president and the controlling owner of
Los Angeles Lakers Genie bus
[Laughter]
oh it's so good to have had me to call
upstairs yeah I see
welcome to USC campus I when I heard
that you were going to be here I had to
to stop by and welcome you and tell you
thank you for inspiring another
generation and I'm sure everybody's
enjoying having you here today thank you
thank you it was family there but the
speaking of that so can you you share
the relationship between Coby and the
bus family with your dad and you your
brothers and what he's meant to the
franchise in your family for us you know
Kobe was drafted at 17 and I'll never
forget meeting him he was a eager young
man and he I'll never forget our weight
or we went to lunch and our waiter
Kobe asked him if he spoke Spanish and
the waiter said yes I do and Kobe said
I'm going to learn Spanish and I thought
that was so odd for somebody so young to
give himself a challenge like that and
now you speak beautiful Spanish Italian
you do your press conferences in both
languages so you know the idea that we
had a franchise player in this this
young kid was a gift for our family and
you know the idea that you have been a
Laker for 20 years throughout your
entire career that meant a lot to my
father doctor bas that you were a Laker
for life anywhere thank you
so what what changes it we're talking
about leadership and I want you both to
sort of two answers what changes did you
notice in Coby from coming in at 18 to
maturing becoming sort of the leader not
just sort of Shaq and Kobe but what what
changes did you notice over time in him
when you have a your star player who is
the first one at the gym and the last
one to leave it sets the bar for
everybody else
he made my job so much easier because of
his leadership I don't think people he
ever really gets the credit for the
amount of work that he puts in because
he made it look effortless and you know
sometimes you know his teammates would
get a little frustrated with you because
you did set the bar so high but that's
that's what made the Lakers great for
your tenure as a Laker and we miss you
and most in most you know as Kobe said
the Lakers play for world championships
they'll play for division championships
or conference championships they play to
win it all and from 1997 when Kobe came
in the league through 2012 the Lakers
were in the playoffs all but one year
the last few years of Kobe's run they're
a young team and they weren't and they
were out of playoff contention how does
your attitude and leadership deal with
changing goals you know I know it's good
to say that you want to win the
championship everywhere but it probably
wasn't really a realistic one so how do
you would adjust how do you adjust as a
team leader and then how what
conversations does ownership have with
the coaches teenie geenie so sweet she
saw me worked so hard for so many years
and the last few years her and Rob who
was at the time my agent called me and
said listen we are so sorry for what
happened to this team we're sorry that
we don't have seriously it's like we
don't we're sorry we don't have a team
around you
I can contend for a championship ya know
it's it's so we could make a few calls
and get you on a contending team that's
all because we just feel horrible about
seeing you go on out there and Chicago
remember this and and I said they're not
listed I said you know we don't each
other for a very long time up now I'm
questioning myself because I'm wondering
what about me makes you think I would
jump ship we don't do that because
you'll do that we couldn't take losing
and and and how angry you think that's
probably what it is
yeah I'll put the tea tables maybe
morning a few tables it's no bad for
tomorrow when would we lost to the
Celtics in 2008 you and Phil Jackson
used to say it's worse to lose in the
finals than to not make the playoffs at
all and losing especially to the Celtics
was that much more difficult but you
just took that right from the court and
went to the Olympics and led the team to
a gold medal so you just you took that
and then then you were on a mission to
get back into the finals and win and and
you did and we played it's fat but to me
it's family it's not like the Lakers
I've been a Laker fan since five years
old man I could I know the Laker history
always from Minneapolis I'll always wear
this today and so it's in my blood and
this family her father believing in me
and standing by me and also stuff like
I'm not I don't go anywhere like this is
home to me you know we work through the
stuff together and like you know as a
leader I'll be able to take the good
with the bad man you can't just cuz the
ship sink and all of a sudden I might
jump off a swim to another [__] like
that you don't do that right you can win
championships in front of everybody then
you can miss the playoffs in front of
everybody you gotta be able to take
boats out
[Laughter]
or or signed with Golden State but
dealing there weren't losing that's
acknowledge acknowledge it's it's the
opposite view it's the opposite you know
it's it's hard to stand and that's why
in the jersey retirement ceremony I said
I talked about that it might have been
easier for you to leave and you know you
didn't in that you know if you're doing
something that's so easy then you might
want to reconsider what you're doing
like I don't like I can't you know
Durant's been a friend of mine for a
very very long time yeah I mean I know
he's been a friend of mine for a long
time so as a bride all those guys would
I make the same decision no but that's
their decision that's their choice I
would have stayed but is what it is yeah
people have to do what's right for them
you know I mean it's not a judgment it's
just a fact so
it is what it is so Jeannie
you mentioned the retirement ceremony
and it was unique one because it came
very early he'd only been retired for a
year and you know as people know Kobe
switched numbers from 8 to 24 during his
career why did you decide to retire two
jerseys in both numbers well it that was
a kind of a debate that we had
internally and really the the whole idea
of retiring a number for a player is
that you know no one else can ever wear
that number again because you will
always think of the former player great
in that number and so we knew that no
one was ever going to wear eight or 24
for the Los Angeles Lakers ever again
but if you took the body of work of Kobe
wearing number eight and Kobe wearing
number 24 both of those players would
qualify to be on the wall and he just
happened to be one who had such an
amazing career he deserved to be up
there twice
I am so grateful that that genie was
able to come here I know you've got
another a commitment that you have to go
to with it I'm gonna say this off the
record
would you ever come back and talk about
your businesses with our students at
some point let's let's thank Gd bus for
coming by
so much GD bus
you can see why Kobe you know some of
these Kobe Jordan phenomenal players
probably not
coaches well I do coach my daughter's do
okay i do i do of course my coach my
daughter's team this use uh it's a sixth
grade basketball team we run a triangle
offense we do we do and and and you know
you can't tell kids scores there I made
it too young for that right the first
teach of how to scorch to earth right so
you you gotta teach them fundamentally
how to pass with your left hand how to
make left-handed layups how the dribble
appropriately out of proper spacing and
you know all the basics first and then
when they get to seventeen eighteen
minutes you know Jack Aris all right so
let's just make a note for admission
seven years let's put her on the radar I
play we've got a couple more minutes and
I'm gonna have students ask you some
questions but I want to want to dive
into your businesses now that you're
sort of transition from basketball it's
interesting cuz most athletes and
retired athletes focus their business
efforts around building their own brand
their personal brand and certainly you
know you have a brand you have a shoe
but you've chosen to do something else
something that's that's more bold
something that you really haven't done
before can you tell us why you're doing
this why you're going into a creative
endeavor like granite II Studios because
I love doing it it's that simple you
know you have to sit in the hash
yourself what is truly gonna get you up
in the morning what's gonna keep you up
at night and when you find what that
answer is you stay true to that
you know I've built a brand for the last
20-some years personal brand which is
great but that is not where our focus is
going to be for the next 50 years it's
what we are doing now are we taking a
big risk yeah but I think that if we
focus on one thing and do that one thing
exceptionally well we won't fail at that
one thing so sometimes you got to put
the other stuff to bed and focus on what
you believe is is the core of the
company and that always starts from what
you love to do the most
so let's focus on on granite II Bryant
style partners is a primarily a venture
fund invest in early stage and growth
stage companies your partner Jeff style
very experienced investor you has had
some wins already with some great
companies but I want to spend some time
on granite because I think that's where
most of your your creativity is
expressed we talked about setting limits
and artificial limits and beliefs on
ourselves granitic Studios what does the
word granite II mean it means greater
than infinity and I just took those
words and then made a new word um and
the whole idea is that you know when I
started playing the game everything was
about trying to be the best when this
men you know when his many championships
as you can jot yada yada yada you get
older you start to understand that
really it's about the next generation
that these Championships do come and go
right and there'll be other people that
win championships but the most important
thing you can do is to pay everything
that you've learned forward to the next
generation to come and that's truly how
you create something that lasts forever
right and so the fundamental belief of
the company is create forever now how do
you do that and that's how you create
something that's greater than infinity
inspire one who inspires the next
conspires the next and on and on you go
and that's the foundation of it all
that's great and Grammy Studios sort of
two different areas content production
and publishing right can you tell us on
the content side tell us about detail
with Kobe Bryant and is it puny Pete and
Friends Beauty Pete and Friends so well
detail will launch that April 12 on ESPN
Plus and what I observed a lot of my
career is how players study film because
now has become like you watch Game film
you see what you do right you see which
would be wrong okay let's do more of
that let's do less of that right but the
way I grew up from Texas winner Phil
Jackson the way film was broken down it
was broken down to the smallest detail
was broken down to the right angle
he's broken down to foot placement
timing looking at the posture of a
teammate you know what could he be
thinking what could he be feeling same
thing with the opposition you know you
watch the feed watch players going to
the timeouts who's talking to who who's
not talking you start looking at every
little thing and so watching the game
for me would take like five hours and
that attention to detail is what's
missing so I felt like if I can put that
in a show I have the next generation the
eleven year old kids hope you are
watching the game at that level what are
they gonna be when they're 25 you know
what level would they be at then and
it's a passion of mine to get that thing
going like I said April 12th would be
the first episode it's so interesting
you know we learned so many things when
were younger and then we never really
turned back to learn how to learn and so
this is a tool to learn how to learn and
learn how to become great and then what
about puny Pete and friends puny P is
like this is sy to create like a sports
version of the peanut gang which is like
the funniest thing it's awesome there's
these little kids this kid named QEP and
God bless his heart no matter how hard
he tries he can never seem to get [__]
right but he tries he tries and tries
and tries and it's a podcast and what I
wanted to do with the podcast is you
know typically you hear a person talking
and in the podcast almost becomes white
noise because you cut it hear somebody
talking and then you're gonna did you
pay attention but what I wanted to do is
take it back to you know where there was
no TV and sports was telecast in radio
so we have these two characters Clarke
and Kimberley spice and they're the
announcers so they're our vision into
the world and so they want to grow up to
be the greatest announcers ever right
and so they're commentating on what it
is that we see and have these kids that
are out there playing all these sports
baseball football basketball it's really
about the relationship between them all
and about the power of dreams and
success and failures it's a series about
their journey but it's it's a it's fun
it's podcast right pocket yes and on the
on the publishing side I've heard they
have like nine different novels yeah in
in development can you tell us what ROM
they're in
and what role do you play in generating
the characters in the content spying and
it's all sports and fantasy so you know
having kids if I try to tell my
daughters you have to work hard and also
stuff like they just kind of look at me
like yeah dad yeah we get it we get it
and it just kind of going one ear out
the other
so I've had to start trying to figure
out how to seed that into stories and
the content in the short stories stories
I can read to them at no bedtime and
then that's when the messages would sink
in because they pay attention to a
character more so than they would pay
attention to what the hell I'm saying
you know but I trick them because I
wrote the story ha ha ha and so that's
what this is where this whole idea kind
of started and from there we you know I
started kind of outlining different
characters and creating an entire world
that centered around sports and fantasy
and magic and the first novel series
that will release his car role of a
wizard and it's a it's a magical coach
that comes in to teach these kids the
magic that's within them and use
fundamentals of the game and the emotion
within each character and how they
navigate those emotions to reach their
full potential those are universal
themes it sounds like you're you're sort
of using the Disney model you're
building a studio in Orange County
getting Hollywood talent to come down
there and join you well we need we need
great writers editors does anybody in
here in this room that fits that pendejo
we're in Costa Mesa so anybody that
loves sports and love story and loves
fantasy so it's got a home for you you
know we just happen to have the number
one cinema school in the world probably
the most storied athletic heritage in
all of college sports great business
school great engineering so I think
there'll be plenty of people that will
probably be joining you at granite II
awesome and I'd like to before I turn
over to students to ask questions I I
really find it fascinating that you have
you know sort of immersed yourself in
something that has you know very
different than professional sports it
hasn't really been done before and that
I hope you feed your creative side
through granite II like you fed your
competitive side through sports
just wish you all the best thank you
thank you let's start off with some
students you can stand up stand up tell
them who you are got about six or seven
for you hey Toby I mean on behalf of
everyone thank you so much for being
here today my name is Sarah Hughes I'm a
master's student in the Entrepreneurship
program I played on the beach volleyball
team as an undergrad and now I play
professionally for Team USA my question
for you is what did you know and learn
at the end of your career that you wish
you knew at the beginning understanding
empathy and compassion because as a
young kid when I came in the league it
was like I'm driving this way and either
you're gonna be on the train or be on
the track but there was no such thing as
understanding that people have lives
outside of the game
we rich apparently I did not but like if
I understood at an early age and I'm it
helps me as a leader to communicate
better I came to understand that later
and getting to know people on a personal
level whether their fears where their
insecurities where their dreams and
ambitions desires those sorts of things
you come to understand that about a
person then you can help them reach the
best version of themselves so I wish I'd
known that earlier thank you oh thank
you
[Laughter]
so Kofi how you doing I'm Jordan
mcLaughlin I'm a senior here working on
my master's in communication management
I played on the USC basketball team here
my question for you is I'm preparing for
the NBA Draft right now
so what recommend what recommendations
do you have for someone on picking an
agent don't cuz it's a dying business I
hope there are no agents in here it's
finally agent not kidding you know I was
very fortunate because Rob was the kind
of agent that worked in collaboration
with his players so my advice to you is
find an agent that's going to
collaborate with you not point you here
points you there all right work behind
the scenes in the shadows without your
knowing what the hell's going on right
an agent that's going to have you be a
part of the meetings right have you in
that room discuss with you not just pop
a contract in front of you but actually
walk you through clause by clause what
it is that you're signing are getting
into and get your feedback on it so if
you could find an agent like that man
you're you're doing well man appreciate
you got it good luck
[Laughter]
hi my name is Waverly I'm a senior
majoring in international Asians and
global business um and I really enjoyed
hearing about your different projects
and new businesses and I was wondering
if you've had to tone down your
competitiveness in your approach in the
new work environment um yeah yeah more
than a little bit no well bat like I
said basketball it's different because
it's such a direct competition what we
do now there isn't because the
competitiveness that I bring to work
every day is really helping people in a
sense be competitive with themselves
right if you're if you're animating
something or or you're writing a
screenplay or you're composing a piece
of music is that the best you can do
alright don't ask me don't say okay do
you approve don't ask me I'm not the
musician I'm not the composer you know
all right so the competitiveness is more
from an individual perspective are you
is this the best you can do and the
answer is yes then off we go so it's
different thank you so much yeah it's
very welcome
[Laughter]
hi Kobe my name is vittorio Eric I'm a
Jew my owner came to watch don't play by
the way volleyball and she were sitting
right there she was like oh my god they
hit that ball so hard that's the first
time watching you guys plays though
thanks for coming you're always welcome
my question for you is players like
Kevin Love and demar derozan are coming
forward sharing their stories about
mental health what is your take on this
and why is it important that elite
athletes join in on this universal
conversation well that's a great
question I think it's important for
athletes to own what it is that they're
going through it's awareness and I think
a lot of times we try to tell children
tell young athletes in particular that
you have those thoughts and those
feelings that's weakness that's bad you
shouldn't be feeling that which then
causes them to feel some type of way
about themselves and they carry that
around with them for the rest of their
lives and I think the most important
thing is for us to be aware of what's
going on in here
not that it's bad good and different but
it's awareness and once you're aware of
it then you can choose to walk
hand-in-hand with it or you can choose
to fight it but you're making that
decision if you just can constantly bury
that in the distance then it starts
festering and it comes up in different
ways and manifests itself in different
ways so I think it's unbelievable with
tomorrow and what Kevin are doing
and hope to see more of it thank you hey
are you it fantastic
I'm Satori I'm a dance major here at USC
I'll be the first graduating class and
I'm a junior now so of course I have to
ask a lot of times dancers and athletes
find themselves at odds with each other
even though their craft sort of demand
the same thing from them so I have to
know how do you see dance and other art
forms and athletics in alignment with
one another well there was a there was a
year played Indiana Pacers in the finals
I rolled my ankle really bad Jalen Rose
stepped under me on purpose he admits it
now finally broke my ankle really really
bad I came back finished the series but
I couldn't touch a basketball till
mid-september which was driving me crazy
I couldn't train but I looked at this
was like the tenth time I rolled my
ankle and in one season so I'm looking
at that I'm saying okay I got to address
that and so being that I couldn't get on
the basketball court what I did was I
took tap-dancing lessons no kidding I
took tap and tap was like the best
training for me in the world because it
strengthened my feet
it changed my rhythm and my approach to
the game I was able to change speeds
when I came back the following season
you know I think dancers put way more
trainer in their body than athletes do
and I think there's a lot that can be
learned from that my daughter took
ballet for several years and I was sit
there in the class right and I didn't
know what I was going to into his I
don't know anything about ballet ready
but I'm sitting there in the class and
I'm watching her and watching to get the
first position the second position I'm
sorry I'm learning the structure and the
rules that go along with that and as
athletes there's a lot to be learned
from that because if you simply go out
there and perform and play yeah you'll
be great every now and then but if you
play with the structure if you
understand the rules that come along
with that the discipline that comes
along with that then you reach another
level but you guys have my respect if
other people don't see that there it is
that's on
by the way I was a horrible tap dancer
by the way my mentality didn't translate
to that [__] man I wasn't gonna coffee
good man are you doing good
someone name was Malik I'm a senior
studying communication I'll be earning
my master's at communication management
on the football team so I was just
wondering um what is the most important
thing that I can take away from football
that would translate into my life after
sports well I mean it's different for
everyone you know I think for me it was
the the discipline the teamwork I mean I
think team works the most important
thing in a sense of you know sports is a
place where you can have so many
different ethnicities people from
different religious beliefs political
beliefs which are grounded with one
focus but achieving one thing right so
being able to put those things to the
side to accomplish a goal and that's one
of the strongest lessons I think you
should take from team sports thank you
for good luck
[Laughter]
are you doing I'm captain Corbin Pierce
I'm a active-duty reconnaissance marine
right and also a father so I have a last
question of a family question for you
off the court now how do you inspire and
foster that vision of greatness in a
child you talked a little bit about your
this storage you tell him I'm in town
it's very different than what they see
every day in social media and so on
no yeah I try to get my kids to see the
beauty in the process so when it got old
enough I used to take him with me to
workouts and it used to be over there
kicking a soccer ball around or whatever
but they would see it's not there
sitting there and watching upset but
they would see you know they know I'd
get up at 4 o'clock in the morning they
know I'm training again you know and
there's film deer basketball I mean they
were there with me as I was writing it
and going through the animation process
going through step by step I think the
important thing that we can do as
parents is to lead by example but also
encourage our children to think
incrementally not to say okay I want to
be like you know Jonna for example my
daughter who plays basketball now you
said that your teach gotta play by so I
made sure like okay I want to be better
than you am i I poo you know I'm just
you know was the start we'll start with
15 minutes a day right until 15 minutes
a day we just stood right in front of
the hoop and just shot right under the
hoop we didn't move around we didn't do
any dribble in just 15 minutes a day
just shoot here right and you do that
for a month and a half and then next
month you step back the next month you
step back again and then you start
working on dribbling right so I think
through actionable things is how we
teach our children because we could sit
there and tell them tell them tell them
tell them win I you know we're kicking
it listen right but it through sports
you can teach them how to think things
incrementally
because that's the way they behave and
it becomes a part of their process in
sports it'll become a part of their
process in life as well
thank you it's already talked thank you
yeah amazing questions imagining you
training your daughter to play
basketball I sort of thought of a Karate
Kid mr. Miyagi well just do that legs
off just do this one thing for a month
so for a month his daughters just
shooting like three foot bunnies for
that's way the rim that's it
you know it's been a great time I told
you we and speaking of Corbin's last
quench question about parenting and Baba
mentality I want you to share why we
promise to get you out of here and what
you have to do today what's your other
obligation okay I don't like being
second in carpool one no I'm joking but
I'm really not no so you know my
schedule is always the same I get up
super early you know I write I work out
I take the kids to school and I go to
the office who work more and then every
day I'm there in carpool to pick up my
baby from school and and so I I mean I
don't miss that I don't miss it
competitively sometimes when I pull up
and there's a car in front of them like
so now you here before me like I'm here
50 minutes before like what the hell
yeah yeah good always can be AG imagine
if you know cutting you off at carpool
just like you dodging in the last minute
cut you mom
yes always competing some way against
yourself I was just annoying annoying
well at USC we compete as well we
compete for the best students the best
entrepreneurs the best dancers the best
athletes the best engineers the best
guest speakers we really try and bring
everybody here
yeah it's sort of interesting because
because he went directly from high
school to the pros you technically he
has eligibility left does so so I
thought I would bring a great
representative from USC to help thank
you please welcome the head football
coach clay Helton clay
you would be the prettiest white out on
the face of the planet
Toby thank you so much thank you for
what you've done for the city of Los
Angeles for what you have done for this
Trojan family today I'm going to tell
you the greatest gift you can give
somebody is your time and you gave your
time today into your mindset I've always
thought that you were one of the most
fierce competitors in the history of any
game today I now know that you are the
fiercest competitor and we taught these
young people that to be great
you have to welcome competition it's
something that is innate in all the
great people and no matter what field
you're in and we'd like to thank you
from our Trojan family to you and we'd
like to make you an honorary Trojan all
right about that thank you yeah thank
you appreciate you being you buddy thank
you thank you thank you stay up here say
students last the questions get up here
for a quick picture this will show off
the guns nicely right here this will be
nice students who ask the questions come
on up really quickly guys thank you for
coming today it's been a great day at
USC it's great to be a Trojan have a
great week fight on
thank you thank you Colby